                                   introduction of python

1.  is a widely used general-purpose,
    high level programming language. 

2. It was created by Guido van Rossum in 
   1991 and further developed by the Python Software Foundation

3. Python is a programming language that lets you 
    work quickly and integrate systems more efficiently.

4. There are two major Python versions: Python 2
   and Python 3. Both are quite different.

5. Before we start Python programming, we need to have
   an interpreter to interpret and run our programs.

6. Python designed by Guido van Rossum at CWI has become 
   a widely used general-purpose, high-level programming language.   

7. Reason for increasing popularity

   Emphasis on code readability, shorter codes, ease of writing

   Programmers can express logical concepts in fewer lines of code
   in comparison to languages such as C++ or Java.

    Python supports multiple programming paradigms, like object-oriented,
    imperative and functional programming or procedural.

    There exists inbuilt functions for almost all of the frequently used concepts.

    Philosophy is “Simplicity is the best”.

8.  Dynamically Typed1.No need to declare anything. 
    An assignment statement binds a name to an object, and the object 
    can be of any type.

 9. No type casting required when using container objects

 10. Advantages : 
      Presence of third-party modules 
      Extensive support libraries(NumPy for numerical calculations, Pandas for data analytics etc) 
      Open source and community development 
      Versatile, Easy to read, learn and write
      User-friendly data structures 
      High-level language 
      Dynamically typed language(No need to mention data type based on the value assigned, it takes data type) 
      Object-oriented language 
      Highly Efficient(Python’s clean object-oriented design provides enhanced process control, and the language is equipped with excellent text processing and integration capabilities, as well as its own unit testing framework, which makes it more efficient.)
      (IoT)Internet of Things Opportunities
      Interpreted Language
      Portable across Operating systems 
 

11. Applications : 
      GUI based desktop applications
      Graphic design, image processing applications, Games, and Scientific/ computational Applications
      Web frameworks and applications 
      Enterprise and Business applications 
      Operating Systems 
      Education
      Database Access
      Language Development 
      Prototyping 
      Software Development
 
12. Organizations using Python : 

      Google(Components of Google spider and Search Engine) 
      Yahoo(Maps) 
      YouTube 
      Mozilla 
      Dropbox 
      Microsoft 
      Cisco 
      Spotify 
      Quora  
 